# Spark Machine Learning

In this post we will see how we can use Spark for solving Regression and Classification problem. Spark is a distributed general purphose framwork well suited for building machine learning models at scale. Machine Learning is a tool that can learn from experience, just like we humans do. Say if you give history of buying habits say from Target then it can learn the attributes/preferences of the person like vegetarian, Aisan, student etc. Once we have the details which is called as latent factors we can recommend new items/products which they like. This is incredibly useful for the company and also for the costumer. Another use case is when you want to predict the value of house like [Zestimate](http://www.zillow.com/find-your-home/). This problem can also be modeled as a Machine Learning task. Here we want to predict the value of a house which is a continuos variable, such tasks are known as regression task. There is one another set of tasks classification in Machine Learning Terminology where in we predict discrete values like given an image predict whether the image contains a dog or a cat or a human. In this post we will see one example of Regression and Classication task using a real world data set. We will build a regression model and a classication model using the powerful tool Spark mllib which is machine learning library in Spark. 

## Regression
As we discussed before Regression task means we are trying to predict a continuos value say the value of house or say you want to predict the score of a test etc. The dataset which we are going to use is [Million Song Dataset](http://labrosa.ee.columbia.edu/millionsong/pages/getting-dataset) 
